Water
Did you know that the human body is about
60% water? So taking in all those other essential
nutrients won’t sustain us without water’s
help. That’s because every cell in the body
depends on water, it carries nutrients to
our cells and helps flush out toxins from
our organs. Drinking water restores fluids
lost through metabolism, breathing, sweating,
and the removal of waste.
It’s important to drink water before you
feel thirsty. That’s because thirst is often
the first symptom of dehydration. So if you’re
feeling thirsty, you’re probably already
dehydrated. If it’s hot outside, or you’ve
been exercising, you’ll want to increase
your water intake.
And what about the opposite, drinking too
much? You may have seen stories in the news
about marathon runners and over-hydration.
However, this is pretty uncommon; drinking
too little water is more of a worry. The key
to hydration is to focus on moderation.
Here’s a question my patients ask me all
the time: “How much water should I drink
each day?” Eight glasses a day isn’t the
magic number; there’s no scientific evidence
behind it. Recommendations vary anywhere from
8 to 15, 8-ounce glasses of water a day. How
much water you need depends on a number of
things, like how big you are, your activity
level, how hot it is…if you’re at all
concerned, talk to a doctor or nutritionist
about your particular needs.
Most people get about 80% of their water from
liquid and 20% from the food they eat. Foods
that have a high water content include lettuce,
watermelon, broccoli and grapefruit. They’re
all are over 90% water. Carrots, apples, yogurt
also contain a lot of water. And of course,
liquids such as milk and fruit juice, and
even herbal teas, will help keep you hydrated.
Plain water is simply the best calorie-free
beverage. If you want to add some flavor,
just add a squeeze of lemon or lime or a splash of 100% fruit juice. Sparkling water is also
an option for a bit of zing. And filtered
water from the tap is a convenient and cost-effective
thirst quencher. So drink up!